[Music]
hello and welcome to the BBC good food
podcast with Tom courage I'm Orlando and
we're here today to talk about citing
ingredients cooking techniques and
general kitchen chat plus we have an
original Tom carriage recipe for you to
try out at home whether you're a
beginner or a budding chef hi and
welcome to this week's BBC good food
podcast with Tom carriage today we're
talking about pumpkin and all things
Halloween don't be too scared because we
have Tom's killer recipe for pumpkin
soup coming up in a moment but first of
all I've got a serious question for Tom
with Halloween coming up do you believe
in ghosts no don't be no come on
no I don't believe in anything like that
I don't believe in anything I've never
seen like I can't like if you caught I I
know I don't really know ghosts the
experience in the Tom and has a shiver
down your spine well that would be
telling I gotta be honest however I'm
fairly certain that didn't involve a
ghost I disappointed you because I would
have had you down as the man who thought
who would say well you never know quite
what might be out there
but now you've closed your mind to it
you won't see one if you don't believe
in them like honestly if you can't you
if science can't justify something for
me it's all about science and it's about
things being proven and otherwise it's a
conspiracy theory and it's ridiculous in
this make-believe in his fairy tales
however that doesn't mean to say that it
doesn't exist if someone can prove to me
they exist great I'll accept it I'm not
non-accepted just until the point that
somebody says yeah ghosts are real
here's the proof then you know you're
inviting a thunderbolt to come down on
you listen I'm 45 years old right and if
I haven't seen a ghost upwards that's 45
years of my life sure like you know why
they waiting for if there is a ghost
listening come and visit tom is my
suggestion yeah yeah but don't be a
scary one please don't be scared
I take it that you hate Halloween as
well no I quite like Canada
oh you can't you can't have one and not
the other you can't be not believe in
ghosts and enjoy all the ghosts do stuff
I like the party set well that's like
saying Christmas come on we enjoy
Christmas don't we like I even dress up
as father Christmas
like you know it'd make a good father
Christmas I can see that because I
completely convinced that Santa arrives
I do a very good impression fact it's
one of my best fitting suits do you do
Halloween do you have a Halloween party
or bomb for not bonfire night party they
kind of morph together yeah they say no
I enjoyed going it I do enjoy doing it
my little man loves it the idea of
dressing that like all kids do they love
dressing up and being a part of it last
year was a werewolf which was great and
then this year who knows what we do this
year but and I love going out that you
know fireworks nights are amazing
they're brilliant you know
I do look and I love the time of year
for food as well and it's very spoke I
love being outdoors I love baked
potatoes and sausages and all that sort
of stuff that you associate with
Halloween and bonfire night and those
sort of dishes they're just great did
you do Halloween as a child or was it
more bonfire night it was more than I
know yeah I think again it's a
generational thing we're a little bit
older bonfire night was massive you'd
all have a big bonfire with a guy on the
top and you'd all learn about Guy Fawkes
and we'd have sausages and baked
potatoes and and and sparklers and the
potato was too hot and burnt your mouth
sausages were too hot as well and burn
your mouth general it was a burning kind
of experience exactly and toffee apples
and all of that sauce then they'd pull
your teeth out they pull hazardous event
but it's super fun it's great you know I
love it but Halloween has become much
more of a big thing I think it was
probably when I was about 10 or 11 that
trick-or-treating started becoming quite
a a thing that people did here and like
35 years later you know it's a massive
thing everyone enjoys Halloween it's a
bit you have Halloween parties those
sort of things that happen so I like I
like it I enjoy I enjoy people into
having fun that's great I love being a
part of it I'm interested you talk about
trick-or-treat because where I live
which is in Exeter the trick-or-treating
has stopped and I figured that all the
kids were being kept in because of
health and safety or something because
we don't get them anymore I always
was equipped with coins and sweets and
things but in your area they still treat
with trick or treating like mad yeah
people goes out in the trick-or-treat
Theory thoroughly as a world war yeah as
a werewolf a most scary of all of them
yeah yeah yeah it didn't have to have a
costume oh I hope he's not listening
that's very very mean but food tastes
better in the open air doesn't it
they say it's special about a cape no
it's not open air its occasion and it's
food that fit and this is where food is
so but where's some of the best moves
you've ever added some people will talk
about our restaurant this and that place
there and up but actually some of the
best meals you've ever had would have
been things like an ice cream sat on the
pier on a hot summer's day or fish and
chips on a beach when it's freezing cold
in winter wrapped up warmer ah and then
followed by a hot chocolate or they're
things that where it is outdoors been
there occasions they match things of a
lovely wrap somewhere at a festival or
thing that just all those sorts of stuff
that encapsulate well that's what makes
food special so it's not just you know
it's not just about it being outdoors
it's everything that's about its
celebration people friends family the
occasion and all those sort of things
add to it even if it is sausages and
baked potatoes that are too hot though
that's a food memory that you remember
and I bet you've been for some really
expensive meals that in your life that
you've gone don't remember that but you
can remember the burn or the hot sausage
you had at a fireworks party some point
when you were seven or eight and I was
quite happy to be burnt it was good fun
the end
yeah probably the first time I ever
burnt my mouth and I burnt it quite a
few times since it was when I fell in
love with English mustard oh I remember
that I remember having English mustard
on a bonfire night because I'd never had
it before and it's a big flavor and it's
a big taste but I remember being about
seven or eight and having it and
thinking oh my god that's making me cry
and then thinking but that was amazing
it tasted fantastic and that you know
that I remember those who saw that
they'll fall in love with English
mustard is a great thing to have
happened and that's way better than any
mission story I've got something poetic
for you now you're going to be really
really impressed poetic by Love's gonna
ride away almost Shelley said that his
idea of heaven was to have a
spoonful of mustard followed by a glass
of claret I get it it's lovely
what mustard would he have had ah my
name is an Englishman so I would have
thought English master maybe maybe not
not the common special bird but it's a
it's an attractive idea so you're a
follower now of Shelley are you most
definitely yeah I did go out with
Shelley once Tom which is your favorite
firework Oh No so the my fireworks are
very different so what New Year's Eve we
always have big fireworks okay wherever
I am you're I work my stir I you
actually run far worse I was just meant
which was your favorite in the display
you mean you actually send them up
actually I do yes I love it so what I do
so I gave up drinking over six years ago
right so I decided on New Year's that I
would spend the same amount of money
that I'd spend on booze over Christmas
in New Year on fireworks which turns out
to be quite a lot of money so I am now a
pyrotechnic engineer I now could do you
actually if they wanted me to I could do
the fireworks on the Thames I music
that's out of my firework displays on
New Year's Eve you start planning it
months before or do you can order a
display how does it work yeah you speak
to the big fireworks people you say I
want to do this and I want it to and I
wanted to end with a massive explosion
that really upsets all the neighbors and
they send it sends you out in a box you
give them a massive check then you get a
huge box of fireworks you have to spend
the day like digging trenches to send it
all up somewhere in the garden warn
everybody that's gonna happen then off
they go and it's the last one the one
that goes really really really high
disappears into the sky invisibly and
then there's the most enormous bang and
the whole sky fills with light is that
the last thing pretty much except is
that times about six so it goes up into
the sky goes bang and then there's about
another five after we've had loads of
different colors that keep coming out
and coming out that is how to spend
fireworks evening with a hot sausage in
your mouth for an English mustard I'm
just gonna look in your direction on New
Year's Eve I see I'll see it from
hundreds of miles away we do it twice a
year
okay maybe you don't hit any satellites
yeah we're gonna talk pumpkins in just a
minute
but before we do that baked potatoes can
you give us the lowdown on baked
potatoes and what we should be topping
them with I see now there's loads of
different things so when you start off
as a kid you just cut him in half put
him a bit of butter in this and baby and
then charred on the outside because
they've been in the bonfire yeah yeah
however I quite like the fact of baking
them right so to make him super posh you
bake him then take him out cut them in
half scoop all the potato out mash it up
with a fork and your cheese and your
bits of bacon and some chopped chives
and some bits and bobs and then channels
have an affinity don't know yeah that
oniony flavor this dinner and then put
all of that mixed flavour back in so you
bake the skins then where you scooped it
out to make them nice and crispy oh then
you put the mashed potato mix that
you've all put together back in sprinkle
some grated cheese on the top back into
the oven or under the grill and then
you've got these amazing like delicious
cups of baked potatoes that are just
fantastic I mean they are just done is
that too good for the kids no kids
should be eating crazy although although
it would you'd spend all that time and
they go what's this well why I mean this
isn't like normal baked potato you do
this is it I mean what is this I bet
they like crunching the skins as well
yeah it's way everyone loves to bake
potato skins and they yeah that's the
best bit isn't it sausages any
particular recommendations for sausages
you can't go wrong with sausages they
can be bleak and dull things and kind of
gummy can't they yeah I mean I would
some supermarkets do some good ones
however I would support the local
butchers and get the Mojo mix because
they make their own amazing sausages and
I'll see your local butcher and boy
sausages from them and they are you know
so speaks them about what you like you
know you know there's loads of great
sausages out there there but I mean you
go from like gamey ones with venison in
it and beef ones and beef a must as a
delicious but I like a straight good
sage and onion basic seasoned English
banger and aspect yeah I'm full size not
the tip elasticized yeah
full size proper sausage in it like
delicious and then how do you cook them
me yeah so I varies some people don't
mind him going through the oven but when
I was a young
commie chef I ana restaurant and I hope
that my first hotel that I worked in and
it's called the Painswick hotel it's
very it's a different place now and the
Gloucestershire is very pretty village
in very village yeah it's my first place
at work and the owner there was a
gentleman called Somerset Moore and he
was a very robust strong Englishman with
like to wear tweed and roam around his
hotel you can imagine that old-school
hotel yeah and he was lovely but he
insisted every morning on the sausages
for breakfast always being fried in a
pan so they were like proper bangers so
it was like old school old school and oh
you know I tend to agree with him I
think they're great when they fry
old-fashioned sausages fried in and a
battered old frying pan yeah done done
like that it's done like they should be
and you print them first so they don't
explode yeah we don't really need to do
that so much anymore so because the
skins are known normally synthetics and
what used to happen is this they would
call bangers because the sausage skins
used to be made from part of the animal
yeah but now then and they explode and
hit you in the eye exactly used to pop
so now that that's why they call bangers
but now you know you learned something
on this podcast there you go someone I
knew who who used to enter sausage
competitions I know that sounds a really
big odd thing to do he was a sausage
maker he swore by the method of poaching
the sausage putting the sausage into
cold water bring it to the boil so it
was kind of cooked through yeah and then
he would sizzle them in a pan but he was
knew they would be perfectly cooked
through because he brought them to the
boil from cold water yeah I think that's
a faff you sounds like you don't know me
with that I I know I think that's
probably a great idea I think that's a
really good idea and then you can gently
colour them up in the pan I quite like
the idea of that I mean and getting them
all over golden yeah I got to be honest
so in one of our attaching two of our
restaurants that we serve breakfast in
some for the rooms of some because we're
open for breakfast is we actually gently
poach our sausages in oil at 65 degrees
so they're just cooked and then when
they come on order we take them out of
the oil and then we fry them so they get
this lovely crisp skin so they're just
beautifully moist in the middle cooked
deliciously so that's kind of know
exactly sous-vide but you've totally
you've the
poached in oil very similar to the very
lower controlled temperature so they're
just cooked and they stayed nice and
moist and and not dried out so so that
method of kind of cooking it first I he
was onto a winner well he did win lots
of competitions with them say we go I
thought was good idea and once again we
find ourselves recommending digital
thermometers yeah - thing I'm really
sorry if you hadn't got used a digital
thermometer you're kind of missing out
we've had some questions on via Twitter
from our following on Twitter about
marshmallows and toasted marshmallows
and s'mores do you do s'mores I
mentioned I asked a friend about the
smallest and she said you didn't know
what smallest was I'm I'm with your
friend okay what is a small it's an
American campfire thing yeah so
obviously they're busy on Twitter on
Twitter they know all about s'mores
yeah it's something where you toast a
digestive biscuit sandwich with
marshmallow and chocolate in the middle
and then you eat it
is that new to you okay new to me is
that going to be turning up soon on a
menu near you probably not on a menu but
it might be something that happens at
home I could see my little man loving
that although you know that's a lot of
sugar in calories however it does sound
delicious yeah it's quite small and it's
only once a year
very true then definitely we shall be
doing it this year dresses werewolves
digestive biscuits marshmallows and
chocolate all together have you ever
cooked on a bonfire yeah we've done
quite a bit I quite enjoy it actually
I'm not talking about a wood-fired up
and I mean your actual bonfire time yeah
no once is the coals have gone that once
the wood is cooled down it's quite nice
to wrap things in timber one and stick
them in there and see what happens I do
that a lot when things with heat I do I
do lots of things wrapped in four and
fro at the bottom all hot women leave it
see what happens scientific approach
that we admire in you yeah I like you
come back late what several hours later
okay yeah yeah exactly that look so
something like a lamb shoulder or leg
and wrap it up in those Oh food I was
thinking something like wait you're
actually making dinner burying that in
the bonfire yeah yeah exactly the both
than that number of times where we just
wrapped it yeah in fact
my dream what I'd love to do is dig a
massive pit set fire to stuff in there
then put in a whole lamb bury it come
back two days later see what it's like
that's that I'd loved it like kind of
like and there's a lot of North African
and Arabic cooking where they do that
with go and in Hawaii they do that with
a pig I get the whole pig gets buried
yeah I would love to have a go at that
place in the garden you wrap it in
banana leaves I think to keep the soil
off yeah I haven't got any bananas I
ain't got any banana plants humans and
banana leaves from a neighbor with green
fingers I'm sure to wrap it up in and
would you be doing this without the
knowledge of your wife and son or would
they be digging this pit I do know I so
I've mentioned it to my wife before and
she says yeah mmm and that was that so
so we've kind of so he's kind of like
well if you're gonna do that do it on
your own somewhere so I'll do that but
my little man will be well it will
involve a digger I mean anything to do
with digging he's going you're not gonna
hand to get you could borrow a grave
digger no I will hand dig it but wait
with it with it with the digger no no
I'll do it with a shovel
I'll get a shovel writing a little
digger would be good maybe you could do
a few earthworks while you're at it why
don't ya maybe study foundations maybe
if I sell it to her that we're building
an extension she might go for a spa yeah
or an outdoor bath that's what it's
gonna be yeah tonight don't bother just
with a cooked pig in it I'm sure that
you can get that past best somehow still
to come on TV secret Foods podcast with
Tom carriage it's a fantastic ingredient
they have to reduce it down and they
gather in their sugar shacks and boil
the syrup for days and days as they
probably visited by ghosts and all sorts
of things happening you know
[Music]
now we'd better talk about pumpkins
because people are obsessed about
pumpkins and they loom large literally
in a lot of lives there's a bit of a
problem with pumpkins in the until you
do pumpkin carvings with your son do you
yeah and you get the stuff out yeah
someone on Twitter said that they keep
bending spoons but I think the answer is
to get some stainless steel spoons that
don't bend don't you because I think I
think the answer there is maybe invest
in a bit of a best thing they can be got
non bending spoons but you get all that
stuff in the middle of the pumpkin
that's stringy stuff the seeds I know
you could separate them out and toast
them you get without stringy stuff that
we won't have to throw away don't worry
yeah yeah there's no there's nothing in
there and the flesh that we scrape out
as well so that we can get the eyes and
the nose and everything that is kind of
cut it is pumpkin but it's a bit
second-rate pumpkin is the problem of
the pumpkins you used for cutting is
they're cultivated to be pumpkins that
we make faces in not eating they're not
about the flavor if you want flavorsome
squashes and pumpkins start looking for
something do those pumpkins are were
like you can eat them but they're not
the best they're not the biggest of
flavors they're not the strike they've
let so many different types of squash
out there that around about the same
time of year that are just delicious
search they might they've got richer
flavors they've got beautiful textures
they're nutty they're sweet they're
savory they're they're a wonderful
ingredient and the one that's around all
year round is the butternut squash er no
no it's a cultivated one but it's one
that gives that lovely kind of pumpkin
flavor that comes all year round and my
favorite pumpkin by a long ways crime
crime prints pumpkin it's amazing
in today's recipe which is coming up to
in a moment called pumpkin and bacon
soup usage as krumping prints pumpkin or
onion squash and onions squash is the
red the rather red one which is shaped
like a great big red onion but not a
purple exactly but they're the ones with
flavor there I think we just have to
bite the bullet on the inside of a
carving pumpkin and put it in the
compost or something like that don't you
find the carving pumpkin cause you're
carving it and forget about it is a food
item think of it as a house decoration
table decoration for a fiver
that's what
thank you me yeah I mean it's not such a
big deal but it's just not not for
eating is it not really I mean you can
eat it but it's you know if you're gonna
find a pumpkin to eat with fine go go to
the farmers market and go and get
something with big robust flavors like
those too even so there is a slight
problem with pumpkins in the flavor
being a bit delicate do you is that got
around by having exactly the right
pumpkin or is it the way that you cook
it is that important no no um you know
that would be important as well because
you like to take some ingredients of
five flavors and you can do it by baking
things cover them in tin foil and
cooking them in their own kind of juices
and steaming them but again it comes
down to finding the ingredient in the
first place another nice little trick is
if you use 2/3 pumpkin 1/3 sweet potato
if you wanna commit making like a mash
or something that in heart that sweet
potato enhances those natural sweetness
and sugars and earthiness of it you're
mixing what is a root vegetable in with
this kind of grown outdoorsy vegetable
but it has that flavor of it being rooty
that autumn and all flavors for mixing
those two together they're amazing it's
strange they're not related but they
behave and look rather similar
odd quirk of vegetable fate that isn't
it is yeah he's a little strange
do you serve pumpkin in your restaurant
yeah we do because there's something um
well not uncouth but it's quite rustic a
pumpkin yeah but everything I do is
about this either celebrated and
pumpkins work so well for that and
treated you that when you blend them and
you make them into soups or purees they
have they naturally have this velvety
like texture there there's something
that's so very smooth and creamy don't
yeah they're incredibly so luxurious in
terms of texture there's something that
you know if you compared it to clothes
it would be like stroking the someone's
nose someone's beautiful dinner Jackie's
what yeah lovely where's Mia yeah it has
been jumping yeah yeah it would be it
would be like hanger it'd be like giving
I don't know Elton John a hug that's
what it's like it's kind of like this
lovely well looked-after beautiful so
sensuous this podcast yeah we
over everything don't we from textures
to sound that taste yeah and do you do
anything else but you make pumpkin bread
or any do do pumpkin dessert you can do
but yeah I do like a pumpkin pie I do
like a set pumpkin pie a little bit like
a custard bit but it so I can nutmeg
custard tart exactly the same sort of
flavors but it's more dense okay so it's
kind of it's just a set vegetable puree
with eggs but it's delicious it's
antastic I love pumpkin pie my mother
was American so we used to pumpkin pie
as a kid but she was used for tinned
pumpkin which you can get and actually
it's very condensed that and the flavor
is good and it's very bright orange they
cooked it down to get it in the tins so
I think that's an example of a doesn't
taste it Alton and example have a really
good tinned commodity I think yeah if
you a great way of using a pureed kind
of built together thing that will work
so well to make that kind of puree
custard thing that you're looking for
and the spices are important in the
pumpkin pie is so important like mace
cinnamon nutmeg all of those sort of
things that make it taste of autumn yeah
I think what pumpkin needs needs those
things doesn't in itself it's a rather
delicate flavor so you need to help it
along by flavoring it with spices and
herbs and seasoning is something that we
haven't talked about I think your
seasoning must be incredibly expert but
how do you go about checking seasoning a
heavily seasoned we heavily seasoned in
restaurants and at home salt and pepper
a big for me I like their big big things
and I know people are worried about soul
contents but for me when it comes to
food salt is about flavor always about
driving it forward so I heavily seasoned
because I think heavily seasoned drives
flavor
it opens taste buds in your mouth it
allows you to taste food for what it is
sometimes people will see that as salty
but I really really like it some people
who have eliminated thought from their
diet find it a bit alarming when they
eat as it weren't normal food
yeah but otherwise I completely agree
with you it's it's very exciting to eat
something that's generously sorted and
we are probably a bit mean with it at
home generally but maybe that's good so
that when we come to your restaurant we
are completely knocked out by the
flavors exactly punched in the mouth a
flavor that's what
you are now I hope that we've got our
soup coming up we have Jack our trusty
podcast assistant who's coming over with
a pan of Hubley bubbling soup
this is the sound effects bit where I
try and make it sound like it's in a
cauldron bubbling I don't think it isn't
in accordance they were probably not
going to manage that this week it's in a
nice shiny and clean saucepan from the
good food test kitchen has done as per
our decision can you hear any glue ping
blooping no no glue ping you'll just
have to imagine the glue it's a gloopy
sink and this is a pumpkin and bacon
soup is the bacon liquidized into it
some of it and as some of its added in
extra is the end for taste and flavor
aha
so it's about it being I mean it's about
so again it comes back to that seasoning
you know bacon is salty it's delicious
again but it helps to enhance and drive
the flavor of the pumpkin is beautiful
and it's also drizzled with maple syrup
which is another dimension maple syrup
so you'll know this because you have
American heritage but I didn't know that
the world's maple syrup is normally made
each year and between four and six weeks
and that is it the only time that it
commits that's the only time that the
trees give up their SAP and in that
period then they have to make it on so
air all the maple syrup for the world of
that year is made in six weeks don't
start to finish it's a fantastic
ingredient because it's totally pure and
it's also crazy the way it's made
because they put these little trap
things on all the trees to collect the
SAP and then they boil it for hours
because the actual SAP is not
particularly sweet they have to reduce
it down and they gather in their sugar
shacks and boil the syrup for days and
days I bet they kind of sing songs they
probably have all sorts a weird kind of
Maine rituals that Stephen King country
and they have all sorts of we are they
probably visited by ghosts and all sorts
of things I was determined to bring it
back they get visited by bears that's
that
what the Bears come in search of the
maple syrup do they yeah they come and
search in maple syrup so there's
normally losing sugar shockers are they
the whole time to bear the battery in
the people the Bears are in the maple
syrup so they chew through the pipe in
this plumbing there's miles and miles of
plumbing through the trees they're on a
slight angle all the way down the hills
and the Bears come along and start
chewing on the on the plumbing because
they and they probably lie down
underneath the broken pipe and just let
it drip into their mouth yeah in heaven
heaven for polar bear not a polar bear
I've got the wrong bear grizzly bear is
that a grizzly bear you are but I've got
visions of like Winnie the Pooh drawings
of him just like lying there with his
big tummy full of maple syrup having a
delicious feed well on that joyous image
I think we have set ourselves up for
Halloween and bonfire night so thank you
enormous Lee Tom for that great fun chat
and also this delicious soup it's an
absolute pleasure thank you happy
Halloween thank you for listening to
today's show you'll find the recipe and
thousands more on BBC good food comm if
you have a minute we'd love to hear from
you on Twitter Facebook or Instagram at
BBC good food
you